ProAir HFA (Inhalation) Play pronunciation
Generic name: albuterol [ al-BUE-ter-ol ]
Other brand names of albuterol include: Accuneb, ProAir Digihaler, ProAir HFA, Proair Respiclick, Proventil, Proventil HFA, ReliOn Ventolin HFA, Ventolin, Ventolin HFA
Drug class: Adrenergic bronchodilators

Before using ProAir HFA
In deciding to use a medicine, the risks of taking the medicine must be weighed against the 
good it will do. This is a decision you and your doctor will make. For this medicine, the following 
should be considered:

Allergies
Tell your doctor if you have ever had any unusual or allergic reaction to this medicine or 
any other medicines. Also tell your health care professional if you have any other types of allergies, 
such as to foods, dyes, preservatives, or animals. For non-prescription products, read the label or 
package ingredients carefully.

Pediatric
Appropriate studies performed to date have not demonstrated pediatric-specific problems that 
would limit the usefulness of ProAir® Digihaler™, ProAir® HFA, ProAir® Respiclick®, Proventil® HFA, 
and Ventolin® HFA in children 4 years of age and older and Accuneb® in children 2 years of age and older. However, safety and efficacy have not been established for ProAir® Digihaler™, ProAir® HFA, ProAir® Respiclick®, Proventil® HFA, and Ventolin® HFA in children younger than 4 years of age and Accuneb® in children younger than 2 years of age.

Geriatric
Appropriate studies have not been performed on the relationship of age to the effects of Proventil® HFA
in the geriatric population. However, elderly patients are more likely to have age-related heart 
problems, which may require caution in the dose for patients receiving Proventil® HFA.

Appropriate studies performed to date have not demonstrated geriatric-specific problems that would 
limit the usefulness of ProAir® Digihaler™, ProAir® HFA, ProAir® Respiclick®, and Ventolin® HFA in 
geriatric patients. However, elderly patients are more likely to have age-related heart, kidney, or 
liver problems, which may require caution and an adjustment in the dose for patients receiving 
ProAir® Digihaler™, ProAir® HFA, ProAir® Respiclick®, and Ventolin® HFA.

No information is available on the relationship of age to the effects of albuterol inhalation 
solution (eg, Accuneb®) in geriatric patients.

Breast Feeding
There are no adequate studies in women for determining infant risk when using this medication 
during breastfeeding. Weigh the potential benefits against the potential risks before taking this 
medication while breastfeeding.

Interactions with Medicines
Although certain medicines should not be used together at all, in other cases two different medicines 
may be used together even if an interaction might occur. In these cases, your doctor may want to 
change the dose, or other precautions may be necessary. When you are taking this medicine, it is 
especially important that your healthcare professional know if you are taking any of the medicines 
listed below. The following interactions have been selected on the basis of their potential significance 
and are not necessarily all-inclusive.

Using this medicine with any of the following medicines is usually not recommended, but may be 
required in some cases. If both medicines are prescribed together, your doctor may change the 
dose or how often you use one or both of the medicines.
Acebutolol
Amineptine
Amitriptyline
Amitriptylinoxide
Amoxapine
Atenolol
Atomoxetine
Bemetizide
Bendroflumethiazide
Benzthiazide
Betaxolol
Bisoprolol
Bumetanide
Carteolol
Carvedilol
Celiprolol
Chlorothiazide
Chlorthalidone
Clomipramine
Clopamide
Cyclopenthiazide
Cyclothiazide
Desipramine
Diazoxide
Dibenzepin
Digoxin
Doxepin
Esmolol
Ethacrynic Acid
Etozolin
Furosemide
Hydrochlorothiazide
Hydroflumethiazide
Imipramine
Indapamide
Iobenguane I 123
Isocarboxazid
Labetalol
Levalbuterol
Levobunolol
Linezolid
Lofepramine
Melitracen
Methacholine
Methyclothiazide
Methylene Blue
Metipranolol
Metolazone
Metoprolol
Nadolol
Nebivolol
Nortriptyline
Opipramol
Oxprenolol
Ozanimod
Penbutolol
Phenelzine
Pindolol
Piretanide
Polythiazide
Procarbazine
Propranolol
Protriptyline
Quinethazone
Rasagiline
Safinamide
Selegiline
Sotalol
Tianeptine
Timolol
Torsemide
Tranylcypromine
Trichlormethiazide
Trimipramine
Xipamide

Interactions with Food/Tobacco/Alcohol
Certain medicines should not be used at or around the time of eating food or eating certain types of 
food since interactions may occur. Using alcohol or tobacco with certain medicines may also cause 
interactions to occur. Discuss with your healthcare professional the use of your medicine with food, 
alcohol, or tobacco.

Other Medical Problems
The presence of other medical problems may affect the use of this medicine. Make sure you tell your 
doctor if you have any other medical problems, especially:

Allergy to milk proteins, history or—ProAir® Digihaler™ and ProAir® Respiclick® should not be 
used in patients with this condition.
Diabetes or
Heart or blood vessel disease (eg, coronary insufficiency) or
Heart rhythm problems (eg, arrhythmia, QT prolongation) or
Hypertension (high blood pressure) or
Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) or
Hypokalemia (low potassium in the blood) or
Ketoacidosis (high ketones in the blood) or
Seizures, history of—Use with caution. May make these conditions worse.
Kidney disease—Use with caution. The effects may be increased because of slower removal of the 
medicine from the body.


For inhalation aerosol dosage form (inhaler):
For treatment or prevention of bronchospasm:
Adults and children 4 years of age and older—Two puffs every 4 to 6 hours as needed.
Children younger than 4 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your child's doctor.
For prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm:
Adults and children 4 years of age and older—Two puffs taken 15 to 30 minutes before exercise.
Children younger than 4 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your child's doctor.
For inhalation powder dosage form (inhaler):
For treatment or prevention of bronchospasm:
Adults and children 4 years of age and older—Two puffs every 4 to 6 hours as needed.
Children younger than 4 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your child's doctor.
For prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm:
Adults and children 4 years of age and older—Two puffs taken 15 to 30 minutes before exercise.
Children younger than 4 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your child's doctor.
For inhalation solution dosage form (used with a nebulizer):
For prevention of bronchospasm:
Adults and children older than 12 years of age—2.5 milligrams (mg) in the nebulizer 3 or 4 times per day as needed.
Children 2 to 12 years of age—0.63 to 1.25 mg in the nebulizer 3 or 4 times per day as needed.
Children younger than 2 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your child's doctor.
Missed Dose
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not double doses.

Do not use this medicine together with other similar inhaled medicines, including 
isoproterenol (Isuprel®), levalbuterol (Xopenex™), metaproterenol (Alupent®), pirbuterol (Maxair®), 
or terbutaline (Brethaire®).

Talk to your doctor or get medical help right away if:
You or your child may also be taking an antiinflammatory medicine, including steroid 
(cortisone-like medicine), together with this medicine. Do not stop taking the antiinflammatory 
medicine, even if your asthma seems better, unless your doctor tells you to.


Hypokalemia (low potassium in the blood) may occur while you are using this medicine. 
Check with your doctor right away if you or your child have decreased urine, dry mouth, 
increased thirst, irregular heartbeat, loss of appetite, mood changes, muscle pain or cramps, 
nausea, vomiting, numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips, trouble breathing, seizures, 
or unusual tiredness or weakness.

Do not take other medicines unless they have been discussed with your doctor. This includes 
prescription or nonprescription (over-the-counter [OTC]) medicines for appetite control, 
asthma, colds, cough, hay fever, or sinus problems, and herbal or vitamin supplements.